
# Public Key Infrastructure (PKI)



## What is a Public Key Infrastructure (PKI)

Public Key Infrastructure or PKI is a combination of software, encryption technologies, processes, and services that enables an organization to secure its communications and business transactions.

The aim of PKI is to provide confidentiality, integrity, access control, authentication, and most importantly, non-repudiation.


Requirement | Description | PKI Solution
---------|----------|---------
 Confidentiality | The secure transmission of information over networks ensuring that it is not accessed by unauthorised individuals | Data encryption
 Integrity | To validate that all the outputs are equivalent to the inputs. Any alter of the data can be immediately detected and prevented. | Digital signatures 
 Authenticity | Both the sender and recipient should be able to validate each other's identities. | Hash algorithms, message digests, digital signatures
 Non-repudiation | To ensure that the sender or receiver of a message cannot deny either sending or receiving such a message in future.  | Digital signatures, audit logs
 Availability |  Information should be consistently and readily accessible for authorized parties. Involves properly maintaining hardware and technical infrastructure and systems that hold and display the information. | Redundancy 


## Components of a Public Key Infrastructure 

**Certificate Authority (CA)**
Primary component of a PKI. The CA server is used for issuing certificates for users, applications, and other CAs as well.
In the CA server, the following are configured:

- Policies
- Rules
- COnditions fo the certificates 
- Hierarchy of the CAs (the Root CA, then the subordinate CA)
- Subordinate CA is also known as Issuing CA


## Resources 

- [Public Key Infrastructure (PKI) and other Concepts in Cryptography for CISSP Exam](https://hub.packtpub.com/public-key-infrastructure-pki-and-other-concepts-cryptography-cissp-exam/)